# EF JavaScript Team Roadmap 2022

This document reflects our initial planning for the respective year and represents
the roadmap we have submitted internally within the EF.

Things in the Ethereum ecosystem move quickly, so please note that we will likely deviate
substantially from this initial roadmap throughout the year.

See our "live" [roadmap](./README.md) document for an up-to-date overview on what we
are currently up to.

## Tracks

Roadmap is divided into following "tracks", identifying our main focus areas
for the year.

### Portal Network

The [Portal Network](https://github.com/ethereum/portal-network-specs) is a new peer-to-peer network topology for the Ethereum network (like devp2p) being build to allow for lightweight Ethereum (mainnet) protocol access and expose a JSON-RPC like interface along. Effort is lead by [Piper Merriam](https://github.com/pipermerriam) and progress has been substantially advanced with specs laid out on a detailed level and two client implementations (Trin (Rust) and Fluffy (nim)) under way.

The EF JavaScript team has build out a [prototype](https://github.com/acolytec3/portalnetwork) on this during 2021 to test on feasability. We will exand on this in 2022 with dedicated hires to build up a client in TypeScript/JavaScript which will allow to bring portal network functionality to the browser.

## Q1

### Portal Network

- [ ] Structural Setup (Monorepo, Software Tests, CI, Code Cleanup)
- [ ] Robustness of the networking layer (`portalnetwork` module)
- [ ] Draft implementation for 1-2 sub networks (e.g. state / history)
- [ ] Analysis on browser networking topology
- [ ] Small-scale browser syncing/communication experiments
- [ ] 1-2 additional hires for the project


## Q2

### Portal Network

- [ ] Stable communication with other clients for sub networks from Q1
- [ ] Draft implementation for 1-2 additional sub networks (e.g. tx / header gossip)
- [ ] Final decisions on browser networking topology
- [ ] Mid-scale browser syncing/communication experiments, feasability study

## Q3

### Portal Network

- [ ] Functionally complete production prototype (alpha)
- [ ] Large-scale browser syncing/communication simulation

## Q4

### Portal Network

- [ ] Candidate for production readiness (beta)





